JUDY WOODRUFF: The White House
today reinforced a stark warning
to the government of Syria's
Bashar al-Assad against
using chemical weapons.
Last night, the administration
announced that the U.S. had
detected -- quote -- "potential
preparations" by the regime to
use the banned weapons, again.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner reports.
MARGARET WARNER: President
Assad was seen today touring
a Russian air base just hours
after last night's
White House statement.
It warned that the Syrian
regime would pay a heavy price
for launching another chemical
attack.
Today, the Pentagon elaborated,
saying the U.S. has seen active
preparations for chemical
weapons use at Shayrat air base
near Homs in Western Syria.
Nancy Youssef is senior
national security
correspondent at BuzzFeed.
NANCY YOUSSEF, BuzzFeed: The
Pentagon told us that they saw
evidence of planes that were
used to conduct aerial chemical
attacks in the past being moved
around on Shayrat airfield.
We also heard reports of chatter
happening on the ground in
preparation for a possible
imminent attack.
The number of people who knew
was so limited, and the message
from the White House was so
ominous, that it created
a real confusion that
we are just not used to.
MARGARET WARNER: A chemical
weapons attack was launched
from that same base in April,
killing dozens of men,
women and children.
The Syrians denied
responsibility.
But President Trump ordered
the U.S. military to fire 59
Tomahawk missiles at the base.
Mr. Trump's response was a sharp
departure from his predecessor's
caution about intervening
in Syria's civil war.
In 2012, President Obama
famously warned that the
use of chemical weapons
use would constitute
a red line, triggering
U.S. action.
But instead, after a deadly
August, 2013, attack on a
Damascus suburb, then-Secretary
of State John Kerry and Russia
worked on a deal with Assad
that aimed to rid his regime
of chemical weapons.
Trump officials say
that strategy clearly
didn't work, and it's
taking a tougher approach
to Syria and its key backers.
U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley
spoke at a House hearing today.
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. Ambassador to
the United Nations: I believe
that the goal is, at this
point, not just to send Assad
a message, but to send Russia
and Iran a message that, if
this happens again, we
are putting you on notice.
MARGARET WARNER: A spokesman
for Russian President Vladimir
Putin retorted: "Such threats to
Syria's legitimate
leaders are unacceptable."
Iran's foreign minister
said: "Another dangerous
U.S. escalation in Syria
on fake pretext will
only serve ISIS," the
Islamic State group.
Since the April 3 U.S.
missile barrage, the
U.S. has had several
confrontations with pro-Assad
forces, shooting down a
Syrian air force jet and an
armed Iranian-made drone.
In response, Russia has
threatened to target
coalition aircraft in
certain parts of Syria.
Today, it's unclear what the
broader U.S. strategy is.
NANCY YOUSSEF: Is the
U.S. committed to a
form of deterrence
against the regime for
possible chemical attacks?
And, if so, in what form?
Going forward, will the
U.S. put out a statement
every time it suspects
chemical weapons attacks?
Is that what we are to take
away from yesterday's statement?
MARGARET WARNER: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Margaret Warner.